.. _0.14.3_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.14.3 Release Notes
===========================

November 19th, 2020

This release mostly contains bug fixes and/or smaller additions to the code base
that add additional functionality. We apologize for the delay caused by testing
difficulties.

New Things
==========
There is now a file reader for UBC formatted gravity gradient data files.

The  class ``simpeg.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.LineCurrent`` now accepts
a keyword argument option ``current`` to set the strength of the ``LineCurrent``.
This is similar behavoir to ```simpeg.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.CircularLoop``.

There are now a few more default options that are setting for the plotting routines
in ``simpeg.utils.plot_utils.plot2Ddata``. We also now specifically overriding these default
options for ``norm``, ``levels``, and ``zorder`` for the ``contourOpts`` dictionary
input. There is also now a ``streamplotOpts`` dictionary input as well to handle
keyword arguments to the stream plot.

This release will also be compatible with upcoming changes to the ``discretize``
package.

Bugs Squashed
=============

The sign convention when reading in the UBC gravity files has been adjusted to match
SimPEG's coordinate system convention. SimPEG uses a right handed coordinate system,
with z being positive upwards, whereas in the UBC file, gravity was defined as positive
downwards.

The user provided mapping for ``simpeg.simulation.LinearSimulation`` was not being
properly taken into account, and has now been fixed.

We have re-anabled the mu inverse testing of ``simpeg.electromagnetics.frequency_domain``
classes, ensuring those tests also pass.


Contributors
============
This is a combination of contributors and reviewers who've made contributions towards
this release (in no particular order).

* @xiaolongw1223
* @jedman
* @lheagy
* @domfournier
* @prisae
* @dccowan
* @thast
* @jcapriot

Pull requests
=============

* `#916 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/916>`__: Update AUTHORS.rst
* `#917 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/917>`__: change the way of exporting magnetic data
* `#918 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/918>`__: add current argument to LineCurrent
* `#921 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/921>`__: Mu Inversion Test for FDEM
* `#922 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/922>`__: Update io_utils.py
* `#927 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/927>`__: Show memory usage in examples
* `#929 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/929>`__: Dev/jpe nsem data fix
* `#931 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/931>`__: Improve mag3d computation over node locations and more versatile pf IO
* `#936 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/936>`__: fix mapping in LinearSimulation
* `#940 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/940>`__: plot_utils: add defaults for all contour, streamplot etc. that can be overwritten by inputs
* `#952 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/952>`__: 0.14.3 notes

Closed issues
=============
* #919
* #920
* #933
