.. _0.14.1_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.14.1 Release Notes
===========================

June 8th, 2020

This release contains a few small bug fixes and parameter renaming for a few
functions.

New Things
==========

The ``resitivity.Fields2D`` object now knows how to integrate its own fields! Meaning
that you call get the ``phi``, ``j``, ``e``, ``charge``, and ``charge_density``
directly from the object itself without having to first call
``resistivity.simulation2D.fields_to_space(fields)``.

Also behind the scenes on the ``resitivity.Simulation2D`` class, we have hopefully
improved the accuracy of the underlying transformation from the wavenumber domain
(where the solution is) to the space domain (where the world is).

Deprecations
============

Resistivity Fields
------------------

Because of the improvement to the ``resitivity.Fields2D`` object, the previous
``resistivity.simulation2D.fields_to_space(fields)`` method has been deprecated.

Resistivity Dipole source and receiver
--------------------------------------

For the ``Dipole`` receiver in ``simpeg.electromagnetics.static.resistivity.receivers``,
the ``locationsM`` and ``locationsN`` parameters are deprecated. They are now called
``locations_m`` and ``locations_n``. There are now two ways to create a ``Dipole`` receiver:

 .. code-block:: python

  rx = resistivity.receivers.Dipole(locations_m, locations_n)

or

.. code-block:: python

  rx = resistivity.receivers.Dipole(locations=(locations_m, locations_n))

Similarly, for the, ``Dipole`` source in ``simpeg.electromagnetics.static.resistivity.sources``,
the ``locationA`` and ``locationB`` parameters are deprecated. They are now called
``location_a`` and ``location_b``. There are now also two ways to create a ``Dipole`` source:

.. code-block:: python

  src = resistivity.sources.Dipole(rx_list, a_loc, b_loc)

or

.. code-block:: python

  src = resistivity.sources.Dipole(rx_list, location=(a_loc, b_loc))

``static`` module cleanups
--------------------------

The following attributes and methods have been deprecated and renamed

* ``resistivity.Survey.m_locations`` -> ``resistivity.Survey.locations_m``
* ``resistivity.Survey.n_locations`` -> ``resistivity.Survey.locations_n``
* ``resistivity.Survey.a_locations`` -> ``resistivity.Survey.locations_a``
* ``resistivity.Survey.b_locations`` -> ``resistivity.Survey.locations_b``
* ``resistivity.Survey.drapeTopo`` -> ``resistivity.Survey.drape_electrodes_on_topography``
* ``utils.static_utils.gen_DCIPsurvey`` -> ``utils.static_utils.generate_dcip_survey``


Additionally the following method has been deprecated, renamed, and had a few keyword
arguments deprecated as well.

* ``utils.static_utils.plot_pseudoSection`` -> ``utils.static_utils.plot_pseudosection``
  * ``pcolorOpts`` -> ``pcolor_opts``
  * ``data_location`` -> ``data_locations``

The ``resistivity.Survey.getABMN_locations`` method is no longer necessary.

Contributors
============

* @lheagy
* @jcapriot
* @sgkang
* @domfournier
* @adamkosik

Pull requests
=============

* `#881 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/881>`__: Bug fixes for 3D IP simulation
* `#884 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/884>`__: Transform DC updates
* `#885 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/885>`__: Fix IRLS Tutorial
* `#889 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/889>`__: Import SolverLU straight from utils.
* `#890 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/890>`__: Update CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Closed issues
=============

* `#856 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/856>`__
* `#877 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/877>`__
* `#878 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/878>`__
* `#887 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/887>`__
* `#888 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/888>`__
