.. _0.14.2_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.14.2 Release Notes
===========================

July 21st, 2020

This release contains some bug fixes that have cropped up since the last release,
as well as a few additions from some new contributors!

New Things
==========

@ikding was kind enough to add in more predefined EM waveforms: the
``simpeg.electromagnetics.time_domain.source.TriangularWaveform`` and
``simpeg.electromagnetics.time_domain.source.HalfSineWaveform``.


Changes
=======

The defaults solvers located in ``simpeg.utils.solver_utils`` will now accept arbitrary
unused kwargs when wrapping a solver. It will warn the user that a kwarg will be unused.
This should allow us to set method specific solver options that wont break the
default solvers when they are not used.


Bugs Squashed
=============

We unfortunately allowed a small bug in the ``drape_electrodes_to_topography`` function
in the last release. This should now work properly for 3D ``discretize.TensorMesh`` again.

There was also a syntax error in ``simpeg.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.RawVec_m``
that was identified and fixed.

There were also typos fixed, type checks were converted to ``isinstance`` checks instead,
we updated the contributing guide to point towards the discourse group, and we've added
a few more authors to the list.


Contributors
============

* @jcapriot
* @lheagy
* @ikding
* @Zhuoliulz
* @bluetyson
* @thast
* @rowanc1

Pull requests
=============

* `#892 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/892>`__: only print the filename if we are going to save the dictionary on disk
* `#894 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/894>`__: Missing comma fixed
* `#900 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/900>`__: Update CONTRIBUTING.rst
* `#903 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/903>`__: Implement new TDEM waveform (HalfSineWaveform and TriangularWaveform) & add waveform unit tests
* `#905 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/905>`__: Typo cleanup & use isinstance for type checks
* `#907 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/907>`__: Update AUTHORS.rst
* `#908 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/908>`__: Update plot_1b_gravity_gradiometry.py
* `#909 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/909>`__: Charge bug fix for 2D cell centered DC field
* `#910 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/910>`__: Update plot_1a_gravity_anomaly.py
* `#911 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/911>`__: Allows logic to cull unused kwargs from inputs to a function
* `#912 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/912>`__: bug fix for 3D tensor mesh drape topo.
* `#914 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/914>`__: Docs/0.14.2 docs

Closed issues
=============

* `#896 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/issues/896>`__
