.. _0.17.0_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.17.0 Release Notes
===========================

April 15th, 2022

This minor release contains new magnetotelluric simulations, improved electromagnetic
sources, and efforts to unify some of the underlying PDE codes.

Highlights
==========
* Natural Source Revamp
* IP simplications
* PDE internal
* Line current source improvements for electromagnetics
* More bug fixes!


Natural Source
--------------
There is a significant revamp of the natural source module for magnetotelluric simulations.
The underlying simulation for 3D has been unified to make use of the frequency domain
simulations internally, which reduced the number of repeated code lines. The 3D
simulations now are handled completely by using the `PlanewaveXY1D` source, which enables
the primary-secondary formulation using both ``x`` and ``y`` polarizations of a 1D primary
field. There are also new 1D simulations implemented using both an analytical layered solution,
and another using simple boundary conditions. Finally we have also implemented 2D
magnetotelluric simulations using boundary conditions of a 1D model on each side. These
simulations all now use the same receiver class too.

Internal PDE Simplifications
----------------------------
Internally the IP and SIP simulations have been significantly simplified due to our
consolidated PDE mass matrices that have been unified into a base PDE class.

Line Currents
-------------
Line currents are now able to be used for HJ formulations of the time domain and frequency
domain simulations.

Contributors
============
This is a combination of contributors and reviewers who've made contributions towards
this release (in no particular order).

* `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
* `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__
* `@JKutt <https://github.com/JKutt>`__
* `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__
* `@RichardScottOZ <https://github.com/RichardScottOZ>`__
* `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__

Pull requests
=============

* `#946 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/946>`__: Simulation mt - Part1
* `#1030 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1030>`__: Line current for HJ formulation
* `#1065 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1065>`__: remove disqus from the footer
* `#1066 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1066>`__: Update plot_inv_grav_tiled.py
* `#1069 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1069>`__: MT 1D/2D with bounds
* `#1070 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1070>`__: Pde base
* `#1074 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1074>`__: Fix type (solver_opts, not solver_spts)
* `#1079 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1079>`__: 0.17.0 Release Staging
