.. _0.23.0_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.23.0 Release Notes
===========================

November 3rd, 2024

.. contents:: Highlights
    :depth: 3

Updates
=======

New features
------------

Full support for Numpy 2.0
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With this release SimPEG is fully compatible with Numpy 2.0.

Augmented receivers for airborne NSEM
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We added new types of receivers intended to be used for airborne natural-source
EM simulations:

- :class:`~simpeg.electromagnetics.natural_source.receivers.Impedance`
- :class:`~simpeg.electromagnetics.natural_source.receivers.Admittance`
- :class:`~simpeg.electromagnetics.natural_source.receivers.ApparentConductivity`
- :class:`~simpeg.electromagnetics.natural_source.receivers.Tipper`

They extend the type of airborne NSEM surveys that can be simulated in SimPEG.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1454 for more details.

Automatic selection of Solver
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This release includes a new
:func:`~simpeg.utils.solver_utils.get_default_solver` function that
automatically selects a solver based on what you have installed on
your system.
For example, it'll select ``Pardiso`` as the solver if you are running an Intel
CPU and have `pydiso` installed in your system. Alternatively, it can choose
``Mumps`` if you are using Apple silicon and the `python-mumps` package is installed.
If no fast solver is available, it'll choose SciPy's ``SparseLU`` solver.

.. note::
    For those installing through `conda-forge`, ``conda install simpeg`` will now also grab
    better solvers for your system as well, consistent with `simpeg`'s solver priority.

Moreover, simulations will also use this function to get the default solver if no
solver is being provided by the user, making it easier to run efficient
finite volume simulations out of the box.
See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1511 for more information.

Support for magnetic gradiometry in Choclo-based magnetic simulations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now the magnetic simulations with ``engine="choclo"`` support forward modelling
the magnetic gradiometry components and TMI derivatives. This fully extends the
support of the Numba-based simulations to every field that can also be
computed using ``engine="geoana"``.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1543 and
https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1553 for more information.

Numba-based implementation of gravity and equivalent sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This release includes new implementations of the gravity and magnetic
equivalent sources using `Choclo <https://fatiando.org/choclo>`__'s kernels and
forward modelling functions and `Numba <https://numba.pydata.org/>`__ to
just-in-time compilations and parallelization, making them faster and more
memory efficient.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1552 and
https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1527.

New ``UpdateIRLS`` directive
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We have renamed the :class:`simpeg.directives.UpdateIRLS` directive for
applying the Iterative Re-weighted Least-Squares during sparse norm inversions,
that includes better argument names and an improved implementation.
See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1349 for more details.

Standardize arguments for active cells and random seeds
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We have standardize the name of the arguments for active cells in meshes through
all functions and methods in SimPEG. We have deprecated the old
names like ``indAct``, ``ind_active`` and ``indActive`` in favor of
``active_cells``.

The arguments for passing random seeds have also been standardized to
``random_seed``. These arguments generalize a way to specify random states,
allowing to take seeds as integers or instances of
:class:`numpy.random.Generator`.


Upgraded dependencies
---------------------

In SimPEG v0.23.0 we dropped support for Python versions <= 3.9. Python 3.8 met
its end-of-life this year (October 2024). Python 3.10 is the minimum required
version for Numpy 2.1.0. To keep up with the latest updates in the scientific
Python ecosystem, we decided to set Python 3.10 as the minimum required version
for SimPEG as well.

Moreover, we have increased the minimum required versions of ``discretize``,
``geoana`` and ``pymatsolver`` in order to support Numpy 2.0.
Lastly, now ``pandas``, ``scikit-learn`` and ``empymod`` are optional
dependencies (instead of required ones).


Documentation
-------------

This release includes a few fixes to the documentation pages, like improvements
to some magnetic examples, and fixes to docstrings and math of a few classes.


Bugfixes
--------

We have fixed some issues of Dask-based simulations that were running into
race-conditions after one of the latest Dask updates. See
https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1469 for more information.


Contributors
============

* `@domfournier <https://github.com/domfournier>`__
* `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
* `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__
* `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
* `@thibaut-kobold <https://github.com/thibaut-kobold>`__

Pull Requests
=============

- Make ``pandas`` & ``scikit-learn`` optional dependencies by `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1514
- Dask races by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1469
- Irls refactor by `@domfournier <https://github.com/domfournier>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1349
- Minimum python version update by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1522
- Replace ``ind_active`` for ``active_cells`` in pf simulations by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1520
- Move push to codecov to its own stage by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1493
- Minor fix in deprecation notice in docstrings by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1535
- Replace ``indActive`` and ``actInd`` for ``active_cells`` in maps by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1534
- Update tests and examples to use the new ``UpdateIRLS`` by
  `@domfournier <https://github.com/domfournier>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1472
- Replace ``indActive`` in VRM simulations for ``active_cells`` by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1536
- Test assigned values when passing deprecated args by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1544
- Use random seed when using ``make_synthetic_data`` in tests by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1545
- Minor improvements to ``UpdateIRLS`` class by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1529
- Replace ``seed`` for ``random_seed`` in directives by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1538
- Minor fixes to magnetic examples by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1547
- Support magnetic gradiometry using Choclo as engine by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1543
- Update usage of ``random_seed`` in one example by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1549
- Replace ``seed`` for ``random_seed`` in ``model_builder`` by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1548
- Replace old args for ``active_cells`` in EM static functions by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1550
- Implement gravity equivalent sources with Choclo as engine by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1527
- Implement tmi derivatives with Choclo in magnetic simulation by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1553
- Implement magnetic eq sources with Choclo by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1552
- Update links in PR template by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1554
- Default solver by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1511
- Fixes for most recent geoana 0.7 by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1557
- Numpy2.0 and discretize 0.11.0 updates by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1558
- Add missing seeds by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1560
- Make use of meshes’ ``cell_bounds`` property by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1559
- Fix docstring of ``SmoothnessFullGradient`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1562
- Fix math in docstring of eigenvalue_by_power_iteration by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1564
- Only warn about default solver when set in simulations by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1565
- Augmented receivers for airborne NSEM by `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1454
- Try uploading all the coverage files at once. by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1569
- Re-implement distance weighting and add a strategy comparison by `@thibaut-kobold <https://github.com/thibaut-kobold>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1310
- Remove empymod dependency by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1571
