.. _0.14.3_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.14.3 Release Notes
===========================

This release mostly contains bug fixes and/or smaller additions to the code base
that add additional functionality.

New Things
==========

We have implemented a fictitous source solution for the 3D DC resistivity system
that will improve accuracy when the model is close to a uniform half-space solution.
This function works by first analytically evaluating the electric potential in
the subsurface using a uniform halfspace. It then uses the corresponding discrete
forward operator to construct the RHS of the underlying PDE, which is then solved
to obtain the electric potential for the given model.

The  class ``SimPEG.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.LineCurrent`` now accepts
a keyword argument option ``current`` to set the strength of the ``LineCurrent``.
This is similar behavoir to ```SimPEG.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.CircularLoop``.

There are now a few more default options that are setting for the plotting routines
in ``SimPEG.utils.plot_utils.plot2Ddata``. We also now specifically overriding these default
options for ``norm``, ``levels``, and ``zorder`` for the ``contourOpts`` dictionary
input. There is also now a ``streamplotOpts`` dictionary input as well to handle
keyword arguments to the stream plot.


We have added a few file readers for UBC styled data files, specifically
gravity gradiometry and UBC's dcip3d OcTree data file format, which is slightly
different than the normal dcip3d data file format.

Bugs Squashed
=============

The sign convention when reading in the UBC gravity files has been adjusted to match
SimPEG's coordinate system convention. SimPEG uses a right handed coordinate system,
with z being positive upwards, whereas in the UBC file, gravity was defined as positive
downwards.
Gravity and magnetic readin

Mapping in LinearSimulation

Re-enable mu inverse testing for FDEM


Contributors
============

* everyones
* @jcapriot

Pull requests
=============

* `#916 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/916>`__: Update AUTHORS.rst
* `#917 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/917>`__: change the way of exporting magnetic data
* `#918 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/918>`__: add current argument to LineCurrent
* `#921 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/921>`__: Mu Inversion Test for FDEM
* `#922 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/922>`__: Update io_utils.py
* `#927 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/927>`__: Show memory usage in examples
* `#929 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/929>`__: Dev/jpe nsem data fix
* `#931 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/931>`__: Improve mag3d computation over node locations and more versatile pf IO
* `#936 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/936>`__: fix mapping in LinearSimulation
* `#940 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/940>`__: plot_utils: add defaults for all contour, streamplot etc. that can be overwritten by inputs

Closed issues
=============
