.. _0.15.0_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.15.0 Release Notes
===========================

May 19th, 2021

This minor release encompasses many different additions and improvements that have been
made to SimPEG since the previous release!

Highlights
==========
* PGI formulation by @thast
* Refactoring of ``static_utils.py``
* :func:`simpeg.electromagnetics.frequency_domain.sources.LineCurrent` source
* Updates for DC Boundary Conditions
* Bug fixes!

PGI
===
We have merged @thast's petrophysically guided inversion (PGI) methodology into SimPEG!
There any many new directives and objective functions related to this methodology of
joint inversion. There are also now new :ref:`tutorials <sphx_glr_content_tutorials_13-joint_inversion>` showing how you can implement this
in both joint inversions and single-domain inversions to incorporate petrophysical
information into the inversion! Check out the multiple PR's related to this branch
addition for more details.

* `#937 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/937>`__: Improving BetaEstimate_byEig (and adding other directives for the other terms of the objective function)
* `#938 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/938>`__: add the Wolfe Curvature condition to the optimization
* `#939 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/939>`__: PGI
* `#959 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/959>`__: Tutorial: Joint PGI Grav + Mag + Octree

This is a great first addition for SimPEG's joint inversion capability and we will be
adding additional forms soon!

Line Current Source
===================
After a long wait, and multiple testing issues, we were finally able to merge in the
frequency domain line current source branch. This branch also enables the line current
source to be used on TreeMeshs.

Boundary Conditions
===================
With the most recent ``0.7.0`` version of ``discretize``, we have updated the DC boundary
conditions to flexibly support more mesh types. As part of this, we have also changed
the default boundary condition for the simulations in ``simpeg.electromagnetics.static.resistivity``
to be the ``Robin`` type condition (equivalent to the ``Mixed`` option previously).
This enables both Pole-Pole solutions for the nodal formulation (something that was not
possible previously). We also caught a error in the 2D DC resistivity simulations'
previous ``Mixed`` boundary condition option that caused incorrect results.

Static Utils
============
The ``static_utils`` module within ``simpeg.electromagnetics.static.resistivity`` has
been given a pass through with many internal changes to make it more flexible in its
handling of dc resitivity surveys. Wenner-type arrays should be better supported by
the psuedosection plotting utility. It now also includes a 3D psuedosection plotting
command using plotly (which should display as intractable within web pages).

Future Warnings
===============
We have changed all of the DeprecationWarning from :ref:`0.14.0 <0.14.0_notes>` to
FutureWarning. We have done a pass to double check that all internal calls should not
issue these warnings, but let this serve as a notice that the items that issue
a FutureWarning will be removed in the next minor release of SimPEG (0.16.0)

Bug Fixes
=========
There are also many individual bug fixes that went into this related to many different
items. For the complete updates, check out the list of PR's that have been merged into
SimPEG.

Contributors
============
This is a combination of contributors and reviewers who've made contributions towards
this release (in no particular order).

* `@thast <https://github.com/thast>`__
* `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
* `@xiaolongw1223 <https://github.com/xiaolongw1223>`__
* `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__
* `@domfournier <https://github.com/domfournier>`__
* `@micmitch <https://github.com/micmitch>`__
* `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__
* `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__
* `@sgkang <https://github.com/sgkang>`__
* `@JKutt <https://github.com/JKutt>`__
* `@RichardScottOZ <https://github.com/RichardScottOZ>`__

Pull requests
=============

* `#791 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/791>`__: FDEM line source
* `#932 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/932>`__: Load ubc dcip datatypes and plot 3d pseudosections
* `#937 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/937>`__: Improving BetaEstimate_byEig (and adding other directives for the other terms of the objective function)
* `#938 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/938>`__: add the Wolfe Curvature condition to the optimization
* `#939 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/939>`__: PGI
* `#958 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/958>`__: Mag. Simulation: fix if statement for self.chi
* `#959 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/959>`__: Tutorial: Joint PGI Grav + Mag + Octree
* `#960 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/960>`__: Fix IP simulation when model or field is None
* `#964 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/964>`__: Replace Travis Icon by Azure in Readme
* `#965 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/965>`__: Add conda-forge badge
* `#967 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/967>`__: Bug fix for gravity simulation
* `#969 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/967>`__: Fix dc2d: Pseudosection and add warning in examples for the observation file format
* `#974 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/974>`__: Clean up and refactor static_utils.py
* `#977 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/977>`__: Fixing 2D IP bug
* `#982 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/982>`__: Update plot_inv_1a_gravity_anomaly.py
* `#983 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/983>`__: Update README.rst
* `#984 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/984>`__: typo in the init
* `#986 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/986>`__: Update README.rst
* `#987 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/987>`__: Ensure the 2D IP simulation stores it's scale array as a float
* `#993 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/993>`__: Dc boundary conditions updates
* `#994 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/994>`__: Update plot_inv_mag_MVI_Sparse_TreeMesh.py
* `#997 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/997>`__: Update api_mag.rst
* `#999 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/999>`__: Update directives.py
* `#1002 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1002>`__: typo
* `#1003 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1003>`__: Remove the duplicate code
* `#1005 <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1005>`__: 0.15.0 release

Closed issues
=============
* #766
* #919
* #935
* #955
* #976
* #980
* #992
* #998
* And many others without issues.
