.. _0.18.1_notes:

===========================
SimPEG 0.18.1 Release Notes
===========================

November 9th, 2022

This release patches a few small bugs from the previous release.

Bug Fixes
=========

Several small bugs have been squashed

* DC 2D cell centered fields now respect the boundary conditions when querying for current density and the electric field.
* For the 1D electromagnetic simulations, `LineCurrent` sources were not being correctly queried to verify they were above the surface. They now also respect the `current` attribute.
* The `alpha_phi` property was not properly hooked into the `__init__` function of `PGI` regularization.
* When determining the quasi geology model of `PGI`, we were incorrectly applying the model mappings to the reference model, (inconsistent with its definition).
* Removed dependance on ``six`` package, as we haven't supported python 2 for a while, and cleaned up leftover `future` imports.

Contributors
============
This is a combination of contributors and reviewers who've made contributions towards
this release (in no particular order).

* `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
* `@thast <https://github.com/thast>`__
* `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__

Pull requests
=============

* `#1122  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1122>`__: fix unnecessary call to maplist on the reference model
* `#1123  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1123>`__: Cleanup six and __future__ imports
* `#1126  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1126>`__: fix alpha multipliers in PGI
* `#1128  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1128>`__: Fix for 2D_CC boundary conditions
* `#1129  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1129>`__: Line current 1D fix
* `#1130  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1130>`__: Fix broken math in regularization docs
* `#1131  <https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1131>`__: 0.18.1 release
