.. _0.25.0_notes:

============================
SimPEG v0.25.0 Release Notes
============================

October 22nd, 2025

.. contents:: Highlights
    :depth: 3

Updates
=======

New features
------------

New differential simulation for magnetic fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This release ships with a new and improved version of the magnetic differential
simulation
:class:`~simpeg.potential_fields.magnetics.Simulation3DDifferential` by
`@johnweis0480 <https://github.com/johnweis0480>`__.
This simulation computes the magnetic field on every cell of the mesh by
numerically solving the magnetostatic PDE. It accounts for
self-demagnetization effects, model both induced and remanent magnetizations,
and is faster and less memory intensive than the integral simulation for large
problems.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1682 for more details.

Add utility function to shift electrodes to discrete topography
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A new :func:`simpeg.utils.shift_to_discrete_topography` function shifts
locations relative to discrete surface topography. When performing MT surveys,
we measure electric fields at the Earth's surface.
Similar to DC/IP, the original measurement locations of the electric fields can
end up in air cells when we discretize surface topography. This function allows
the user to shift locations relative to discrete topography on Tensor and Tree
meshes.
For Airborne NSEM, they also allow the user to preserve the original flight
heights.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1683 for more details.

Calculate B/H fields with a step-off waveform closed-loop wire source in TDEM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We can now calculate the B and H fields using a closed-loop wire as source in
the TDEM code with a step-off waveform.
The simulation will first compute the vector potential using the Biot-Savart
Law and then take the curl of it to get the initial :math:`\mathbf{B}` field.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1651 for more details.

Sensitivity matrix as a ``LinearOperator`` in gravity and magnetic equivalent layers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Gravity and magnetic equivalent sources can now define the sensitivity
matrix ``J`` as a :class:`scipy.sparse.linalg.LinearOperator` when
``store_sensitivities="forward_only"``. This extends the behaviour previously
implemented in the integral gravity and magnetic simulations to the
equivalent layer classes.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1674 and
https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1676 for more details.

Choosing the default solver is easier now
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :func:`~simpeg.utils.get_default_solver` can now be imported directly from
:mod:`simpeg.utils` making it easier to use it.

Check out the new How to Guide on :ref:`choosing-solvers` for more information
on how we can use this function.

Improved inversion printout
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The information table displayed during an inversion has been improved. Now, the
zero-th iteration corresponds to the status of the inversion problem **before**
any optimization steps, while subsequent iterations show information **after**
each iteration but before directives are applied.
The final iteration of the inversion is shown in the last row of the table.
Additionally, some non-very-useful messages have been removed to produce
a cleaner output.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1626 for more details.

Standardized directives for saving outputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Directives that store and save inversion outputs have been
standardized and made more reliable. They now respect the output directory
chosen by the user, and output filenames follow a standardized
``name-timestamp-iteration`` format to make it easier to sort and identify
files from different inversions.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1657 for more details.

Updates to the Conjugate Gradient minimizers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The conjugate gradient minimizers were updated to be consistent with the latest
versions of SciPy. They can now accept both relative and absolute tolerances
through the ``cg_rtol`` and ``cg_atol`` arguments, respectively.

The ``tolCG`` argument will be removed in the future, making ``cg_rtol`` and
``cg_atol`` the preferred way to set tolerances in these minimizers.

See https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1656 for more details.



Documentation
-------------

This release introduces a fresh new landing page for SimPEG docs, and a new
**How to Guide** section in our :ref:`user_guide` with pages on
:ref:`choosing-solvers` and :ref:`how-to-move-mesh`.

We also included a new page that clarifies Python and Numpy
:ref:`version-compatibility` with SimPEG, and explain the criteria for dropping
older versions of our dependencies.

We started removing the gravity, magnetic and DC tutorials from SimPEG's docs,
as part of our plan of moving all tutorials to our `User Tutorials
<https://simpeg.xyz/user-tutorials>`_.

Now we can navigate our docs using our arrow keys in the keyboard (for those
power users that don't want to leave the keyboard) thanks to `@prisae
<https://github.com/prisae>`__.

Finally, we improved and fixed a few things in the docs: mathematical
expressions, added missing classes to the API reference, updated admonitions in
docstrings, and more.

Bugfixes
--------

In this release we included a few bugfixes:

- Fixes sign error in 1D field calculation. by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1662
- Fix beta cooling in ``UpdateIRLS`` directive by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1659
- Fix bug in phase for recursive 1d NSEM simulation by `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1679
- Fix bug on ``Impedance.eval`` when orientation is “xx” or “yy” by
  `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1692
- Fix magnetic dipole source for for HJ formulation by `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1575
- Fix bug with duplicated current in ``LineCurrent.Mejs`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1718

Breaking changes
----------------

We introduced a few breaking changes in SimPEG v0.25.0.

Dropped support for Python 3.10
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We dropped support for Python 3.10, inline with our
:ref:`version-compatibility` schedule. So, remember to use Python 3.11 or higher
when installing SimPEG v0.25.0. If you still need to use Python 3.10, please
pin your SimPEG version to v0.24.0.

Modified how mappings are applied in regularizations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We updated how mappings are applied in most of our regularization classes
(:class:`~simpeg.regularization.WeightedLeastSquares`,
:class:`~simpeg.regularization.Smallness`,
:class:`~simpeg.regularization.SmoothnessFirstOrder`,
:class:`~simpeg.regularization.Sparse`,
etc.). The ``mapping`` was applied, for example in the
:class:`~simpeg.regularization.Smallness` regularization, to the difference
between the ``model`` and the ``reference_model``:

.. math::

    \phi (\mathbf{m}) =
    \left\lVert
    \mathbf{W} \left[ \mu(\mathbf{m} - \mathbf{m}^\text{ref}) \right]
    \right\rVert^2.

where :math:`\mu()` is the ``mapping``.

Since SimPEG v0.25.0 the regularizations are applied to the difference between
the *mapped* model and the *mapped* regularization model:

.. math::

    \phi (\mathbf{m}) =
    \left\lVert
    \mathbf{W} \left[ \mu(\mathbf{m}) - \mu(\mathbf{m}^\text{ref}) \right]
    \right\rVert^2.

This impacts only non-linear mappings, since the two expressions are equivalent
for linear ones.

Changed the output of :func:`~simpeg.utils.model_builder.get_indices_block`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :func:`~simpeg.utils.model_builder.get_indices_block` function previously
returned a tuple with just a single element: the array with cell indices that
correspond the given block. We standardized its output to be in agreement with
similar functions in the module. It now returns a single NumPy array with the
cell indices of the block.

If you were using this function as follows, where you used to extract the first
element of the tuple:

.. code:: python

    ind = get_indices_block(p0, p1, mesh.cell_centers)[0]

You'll need to update it to:

.. code:: python

    ind = get_indices_block(p0, p1, mesh.cell_centers)

An informative warning will be printed out every time the function is used to
remind users of this new behaviour.

Removals
~~~~~~~~

We also removed several deprecated items marked for removal in previous
releases, including:

- The ``Data.index_dictionary`` property. Use the new ``get_slice`` method of
  ``Survey`` (for example:
  :meth:`simpeg.potential_fields.gravity.Survey.get_slice`).
- The ``gtg_diagonal`` property from gravity simulation.
- The ``components`` property from gravity and magnetic surveys.


Contributors
============

Contributors:

* `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__
* `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
* `@johnweis0480 <https://github.com/johnweis0480>`__
* `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__
* `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__
* `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
* `@williamjsdavis <https://github.com/williamjsdavis>`__
* `@YingHuuu <https://github.com/YingHuuu>`__
* `@domfournier <https://github.com/domfournier>`__


Pull Requests
=============

- Update docstring descriptions for gravity gradient component guv by
  `@williamjsdavis <https://github.com/williamjsdavis>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1665
- Clean up Numba functions for potential field simulations by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1663
- Make directives submodules private by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1667
- Ensure misfit is purely real valued by `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1524
- Add key navigation to docs by `@prisae <https://github.com/prisae>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1668
- Add missing map classes to the API reference by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1672
- Replace sklearn deprecated method for ``validate_data`` function by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1673
- Remove ``BaseSurvey.counter`` property by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1640
- Fixes sign error in 1D field calculation. by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1662
- Allow use of ``J`` as ``LinearOperator`` in mag equivalent layers by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1676
- Fix beta cooling in ``UpdateIRLS`` directive by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1659
- Allow use of ``J`` as ``LinearOperator`` in gravity equivalent layers
  by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1674
- Improve admonitions in gravity simulation by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1677
- Have an option to take a step when the Linesearch breaks by `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1581
- Fix bug in phase for recursive 1d NSEM simulation by `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1679
- Use conda-forge as only channel in Azure pipelines by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1688
- Expose solver utility functions in ``simpeg.utils`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1678
- Use logging while setting default solver in PDE simulations by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1670
- Use ``Impedance`` and ``Tipper`` in examples and tests by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1690
- Fix bug on ``Impedance.eval`` when orientation is “xx” or “yy” by
  `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1692
- Remove deprecated objects missed in v0.24.0 by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1658
- Update magnetic simulation using differential formulation by
  `@johnweis0480 <https://github.com/johnweis0480>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1682
- Standardize output directives and make them more reliable by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1657
- Make tests error on implicit complex to real by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1696
- Avoids calculating unused values for boundary conditions on DC 2D
  simulations by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1698
- Add How to Guide page on how to choose a solver by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1695
- Make Logger a bit quieter when running pytest by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1697
- CG Minimizer Updates by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1656
- Add top level descriptions to missing to functions by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1702
- Update meeting times in README.rst by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1700
- Add ``_faceDiv`` attribute to FDEM H ``Fields`` by `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1346
- Improve landing page of docs by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1701
- Add How to Guide page on moving mesh to survey area by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1699
- Remove gravity and magnetic tutorials by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1704
- Minor fixes to docs of ``UpdateSensitivityWeights`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1705
- Update iteration print out by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1626
- Fix magnetic dipole source for for HJ formulation by `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1575
- Drop support for Python 3.10 by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1708
- Add documentation page for version compatibility by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1707
- Remove DC resistivity tutorials by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1710
- Improve dipole source tests by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1711
- Update deprecated calls in examples, tutorials, and tests to inexact
  CG minimizers by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1703
- Make ``ComplexMap.deriv`` to return a sparse diagonal matrix by
  `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1686
- Standardize signature of mappings’ ``deriv`` method by `@YingHuuu <https://github.com/YingHuuu>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1407
- Update how mappings are applied in regularizations by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1605
- Simple fix for pymatsolver 0.4.0 by `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1717
- Fix bug with duplicated current in ``LineCurrent.Mejs`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__
  in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1718
- Minor fixes to LaTeX equations in regularizations by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1720
- Fix return of ``get_indices_block`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1713
- Remove deprecated bits marked for removal in v0.25.0 by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1719
- Add shift to discrete topography for NSEM by `@dccowan <https://github.com/dccowan>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1683
- Deprecate unused arguments in ``drape_electrodes_on_topography`` by
  `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1723
- Fix LaTeX equations in ``Simulation3DDifferential`` by `@santisoler <https://github.com/santisoler>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1726
- Implement a closed loop as a TDEM source by `@lheagy <https://github.com/lheagy>`__ in
  https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1651
- Allow for specifying ramp start and ramp end in ``RampOffWaveform`` by
  `@jcapriot <https://github.com/jcapriot>`__ in https://github.com/simpeg/simpeg/pull/1714
